CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome. Before contributing please read the
[code of conduct](https://github.com/newrelic/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [search the issue tracker](issues); your issue may have already been discussed or fixed in `main`. To contribute,
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository, commit your changes, and [send a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

Note that our [code of conduct](https://github.com/newrelic/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all platforms and venues related to this project; please follow it in all your interactions with the project and its participants.

## Feature Requests

Feature requests should be submitted in the [Issue tracker](../../issues), with a description of the expected behavior & use case, where they’ll remain closed until sufficient interest, [e.g. :+1: reactions](https://help.github.com/articles/about-discussions-in-issues-and-pull-requests/), has been [shown by the community](../../issues?q=label%3A%22votes+needed%22+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc).
Before submitting an Issue, please search for similar ones in the
[closed issues](../../issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement).

## Pull Requests

1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md to the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
3. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Contributor License Agreement

Keep in mind that when you submit your Pull Request, you'll need to sign the CLA via the click-through using CLA-Assistant. If you'd like to execute our corporate CLA, or if you have any questions, please drop us an email at opensource@newrelic.com.

For more information about CLAs, please check out Alex Russell’s excellent post,
[“Why Do I Need to Sign This?”](https://infrequently.org/2008/06/why-do-i-need-to-sign-this/).

Commit message:

docs: architecture and flows (#1065)
* docs: architecture, flows and dependencies

* ci(docs): add PR template

* docs: OpAMP --> Fleet Control

Co-authored-by: Christian <calvarez@newrelic.com>

* docs: opamp-rs reference, mentioning threads for on-host, general wording

* docs: clarify behavior of K8s supervisor

Co-authored-by: Christian <calvarez@newrelic.com>

* ci: add CODEOWNERS

* docs: add port-forward troubleshooting info

* docs: link to K8s port-forward

* docs: more exhaustive test suites, reference to makefile

* docs: clarify usage of Flux

Co-authored-by: Christian <calvarez@newrelic.com>

* docs(dev): clarify how to disable FC

* docs: clarify agent type versioning

* docs: numbered steps on mermaid graph

* docs: added more tasks to the PR creation template

* docs: move some PR template contents to CONTRIBUTING.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Christian <calvarez@newrelic.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome. Before contributing please read the
[code of conduct](https://github.com/newrelic/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [search the issue tracker](issues); your issue may have already been discussed or fixed in `main`. To contribute,
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository, commit your changes, and [send a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

Note that our [code of conduct](https://github.com/newrelic/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all platforms and venues related to this project; please follow it in all your interactions with the project and its participants.

## Feature Requests

Feature requests should be submitted in the [Issue tracker](../../issues), with a description of the expected behavior & use case, where they’ll remain closed until sufficient interest, [e.g. :+1: reactions](https://help.github.com/articles/about-discussions-in-issues-and-pull-requests/), has been [shown by the community](../../issues?q=label%3A%22votes+needed%22+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc).
Before submitting an Issue, please search for similar ones in the
[closed issues](../../issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement).

## Pull Requests

1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md to the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
3. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

Following our best practices right from the start will accelerate the review process and help get your PR merged quicker.

When updates to your PR are requested, please add new commits and do not squash the history. This will make it easier to identify new changes. The PR will be squashed anyway when it is merged.

For fast feedback, please `@`-mention maintainers.

Please make sure you test your changes before you push them. Once pushed, a GitHub Action will run across your changes and do some initial checks and linting. These checks can take a while, but we nonetheless require them to pass before we even continue reviewing your changes.

And do NOT forget to update documentation! Check the contents of the [`docs`](./docs) directory and apply changes as required. To quickly locate potential places that might need updating, search for expressions like "currently" or "as of now".

## Contributor License Agreement

Keep in mind that when you submit your Pull Request, you'll need to sign the CLA via the click-through using CLA-Assistant. If you'd like to execute our corporate CLA, or if you have any questions, please drop us an email at <opensource@newrelic.com>.

For more information about CLAs, please check out Alex Russell’s excellent post, [“Why Do I Need to Sign This?”](https://infrequently.org/2008/06/why-do-i-need-to-sign-this/).
