docs/opamp-communication-flows/delete-configuration.md, before:

# Delete remote configuration

Since there is no specific field to delete a remote configuration in the [ServerToAgent message](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-spec/blob/db1e1fcf14e834469f822496f2fa1ed0512141be/specification.md#servertoagent-message), we use a config entry with empty content to do so. In other words, In order to remove a remote configuration and make an agent going back to local or default, the `AgentToServer` from OpAMP will contain a remote configuration config entry with **empty** content.

```json
{
    "AgentToServer": {
        "AgentRemoteConfig" : {
            "AgentConfigMap" : {
                "<config-name>" : ""
            }
        },
        "Hash" : "<hash>"
    }
}
```

Therefore, applying an empty configuration means that agent falls back to the local configuration, and it is important to highlight that this configuration is applied like any other. When the empty configuration is successfully received by the agent, it sends an _Applying_ message, and once it is successfully applied (the agent is running with the local/default configuration), it sends an _Applied_ message. The sequence diagram below shows an scenario where a remote configuration is set and then deleted.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server

    Note right of Server: Remote configuration with hash=x is set.
    Server->>+Client: ServerToAgent(RemoteConfiguration, hash=x)
    Client->>Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applying), hash=x)
    Note left of Client: Configuration successfully applied.
    Client->>-Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applied), hash=x)

    Note right of Server: Remote configuration with hash=x is deleted.<br/>Empty configuration is sent.
    Server->>+Client: ServerToAgent(RemoteConfiguration, hash=x, empty)
    Client->>Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applying), hash=y)
    Note left of Client: The remote configuration is successfully deleted.<br/>Falls back to local.
    Client->>-Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applied), hash=y)
```

## ❌ RemoteConfigStatus 'UNSET' value

The `UNSET` value for the  `RemoteConfigStatus` field can be a bit misleading, its name might suggest that the value is supposed to be sent when the remote configuration is deleted or removed, but according to the [specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-spec/blob/db1e1fcf14e834469f822496f2fa1ed0512141be/specification.md#agenttoserverremote_config_status):

> The list of the Agent packages, including package statuses. This field SHOULD be unset if this information is unchanged since the last AgentToServer message.

Besides, in the [RemoteConfigStatus message definition](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-spec/blob/db1e1fcf14e834469f822496f2fa1ed0512141be/specification.md#remoteconfigstatus-message), it says:

```protobuf
message RemoteConfigStatus {
    bytes last_remote_config_hash = 1;
    enum Status {
        // The value of status field is not set.
        UNSET = 0;

        // Remote config was successfully applied by the Agent.
        APPLIED = 1;

        // Agent is currently applying the remote config that it received earlier.
        APPLYING = 2;

        // Agent tried to apply the config received earlier, but it failed.
        // See error_message for more details.
        FAILED = 3;
    }
    Status status = 2;
    string error_message = 3;
}
```

Considering its definition and the fact of there is no specific field/value to delete/unset a remote configuration in the protocol, the `UNSET` is a default value (zero value) which means that the value of the status field in the message is not set (RemoteConfigStatus is not being reported).

Commit message:

fix: handle subagent missing local configuration
When there is no local configuration, instead of considering an empty
configuration the sub-agent is started with no supervisor. Therefore,
the sub-agent waits for remote configuration to be informed.

docs/opamp-communication-flows/delete-configuration.md, after:

# Delete remote configuration

Since there is no specific field to delete a remote configuration in the [ServerToAgent message](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-spec/blob/db1e1fcf14e834469f822496f2fa1ed0512141be/specification.md#servertoagent-message), we use a config entry with empty content to do so. In other words, In order to remove a remote configuration and make an agent going back to local or default, the `AgentToServer` from OpAMP will contain a remote configuration config entry with **empty** content.

```json
{
    "AgentToServer": {
        "AgentRemoteConfig" : {
            "AgentConfigMap" : {
                "<config-name>" : ""
            }
        },
        "Hash" : "<hash>"
    }
}
```

Therefore, applying an empty configuration means that agent falls back to the local configuration, and it is important to highlight that this configuration is applied like any other. When the empty configuration is successfully received by the agent, it sends an _Applying_ message, and once it is successfully applied (the agent is running with the local/default configuration), it sends an _Applied_ message. The sequence diagram below shows an scenario where a remote configuration is set and then deleted.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server

    Note right of Server: Remote configuration with hash=x is set.
    Server->>+Client: ServerToAgent(RemoteConfiguration, hash=x)
    Client->>Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applying), hash=x)
    Note left of Client: Configuration successfully applied.
    Client->>-Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applied), hash=x)

    Note right of Server: Remote configuration with hash=x is deleted.<br/>Empty configuration is sent.
    Server->>+Client: ServerToAgent(RemoteConfiguration, hash=x, empty)
    Client->>Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applying), hash=y)
    Note left of Client: The remote configuration is successfully deleted.<br/>Falls back to local.
    Client->>-Server: AgentToServer(RemoteConfigStatus(Applied), hash=y)
```

⚠️ **If empty remote configuration is sent and there is no local configuration, the agent's supervisor will be stopped**. The sub-agent will
wait for a remote configuration since it cannot fallback to local when there is no local.

## ❌ RemoteConfigStatus 'UNSET' value

The `UNSET` value for the  `RemoteConfigStatus` field can be a bit misleading, its name might suggest that the value is supposed to be sent when the remote configuration is deleted or removed, but according to the [specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-spec/blob/db1e1fcf14e834469f822496f2fa1ed0512141be/specification.md#agenttoserverremote_config_status):

> The list of the Agent packages, including package statuses. This field SHOULD be unset if this information is unchanged since the last AgentToServer message.

Besides, in the [RemoteConfigStatus message definition](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-spec/blob/db1e1fcf14e834469f822496f2fa1ed0512141be/specification.md#remoteconfigstatus-message), it says:

```protobuf
message RemoteConfigStatus {
    bytes last_remote_config_hash = 1;
    enum Status {
        // The value of status field is not set.
        UNSET = 0;

        // Remote config was successfully applied by the Agent.
        APPLIED = 1;

        // Agent is currently applying the remote config that it received earlier.
        APPLYING = 2;

        // Agent tried to apply the config received earlier, but it failed.
        // See error_message for more details.
        FAILED = 3;
    }
    Status status = 2;
    string error_message = 3;
}
```

Considering its definition and the fact of there is no specific field/value to delete/unset a remote configuration in the protocol, the `UNSET` is a default value (zero value) which means that the value of the status field in the message is not set (RemoteConfigStatus is not being reported).
